## v1.4.6
- Fix achievement progress bar error display

## v1.4.5
- Allow clicking hidden achievements with `secrets_listhide` enabled to check their rarity
- Include `images/white/sort_secrets_lh1.png`

## v1.4.4
- `secrets_listhide` - hide title and icon for secret achievements (instead of only hiding description), also available through in-app secrets menu
- `secrets_bottom_count` - can be disabled to remove the hidden achievement count line for `secrets=bottom`
- Adapt to Steam API's new unlock rates format (it was suddenly changed which caused crashes)
- React to hovering over left and right sides of the achievement icon frame
- Include empty `sounds` folder in release
- Fix "hidden achievements" icon not being affected by `images` setting
- Fix internal ach dumper using `stg` instead of `stg_ad` for `bar_hide_secret`

## v1.4.3
- Don't send progress notification if reported progress is 0. Prevents notification spam when achievement progress file is created by Goldberg fork.
- Print "Font file not found" instead of throwing an error for `font_general` (like for other fonts)

## v1.4.2
- Achievement language is now chosen separately for name and description. Since v1.3.0, it was assumed that the two lists of available languages are always the same, so the description language availability check was removed. An example where this causes a crash has now been found. Two lists of languages will now be printed for such achievements on click.
- Separate save dirs for `path:` saves for Goldberg (like for other emulators with `path:`)
- Fix inability to type `v` in search because of the `Ctrl+V` check
- Disable printing `~` info in search
- Fix stats not loading for `local_save` Goldberg saves
- Fix `unlockrates=desc` causing a crash if an achievement has no description

## v1.4.1
- Fix crash on right-click outside of a history entry on history screen

## v1.4.0
- Notification sounds
- Increment-only stats
- Stats can now be clicked to print info about them
- `achbg_rarity` - rarity-based achievement background length, similar to Steam's global stats page
- Loading images from `images` subfolders + example image sets
- Minimal `window_size_x` decreased (274 -> 170)
- `reveal_icons_hover`, `reveal_icons_revsecr` - temporarily show unlocked icons for locked achievements
- Notify if achievements are added/removed on Steam (if unlock rates are loaded)
- `games/defaults.txt` - default emulator and users
- Get correct documents location on Windows
- More color settings: `frame_color_hover`, `color_text_rare`, `color_text_rare_lock`, `color_text_hover`
- Backup saved timestamps to `save/backup` if any of them is removed when an achievement gets locked
- Default `delay_sleep` decreased (0.1 -> 0.03)
- Removed `settings_goldberg.txt` from release; changed `settings_steam.txt` to show current timestamps
- Added support for configs generated by one of the forked versions of `generate_emu_config`
- Automatically run `generate_emu_config` if its path is added to settings (`generator_path`)
- Show progress relying on avgrate stats when tracking Steam
- Store game names in `games/games.json` and separate them by language; the `.txt` can still be used for manual overrides
- `bar_percentage` - show achievement progress as a percentage next to / instead of normal values
- Mark `avgrate` stats
- Default value of `notif_lock` changed to `true`
- Print achievement progress `min_val` on click if it is non-zero
- Print achievement rarity on click if `unlockrates=desc` and the achievement is secret
- `ctrl_click` - if enabled, clicking an achievement while holding Ctrl will print its translation to language from input()
- Support for `path:` for Goldberg and loading saves from `GSE Saves` folder; check both normal and lowercase stat name because filenames are case-sensitive on Linux and different versions of Goldberg use different names
- "Hide all secret descriptions" (including unlocked achievements) mode
- Default value of `secrets` changed (`normal` -> `hide`)
- Right-click an achievement in history to jump to it in the main list.
- Internal ach_dumper
- Allow pasting in search
- Allow screensaver (by @detiam)
- Countless fixes
- `[save_finder_all]` Choose grouping mode without using console arguments
- Experimental version (see `experimental` branch)

## v1.3.1
- Fix broken icon handling.
- Automatically run `icon_converter` (Windows-only; can be disabled).

## v1.3.0

### This commit
- Fix `forced_time_load=filechange`.
- When sorting by unlock time and multiple achievements have the same timestamp, show them in reverse order.
- Added some `try-except`s to minimize crashes.
- Print error type for various errors.
- Use the same save folder even if `path:` is written with a slight difference (for example, letter case or type of slash). Move `path:` saves from `save/[Emulator]/path_[AppID]_[PathHash]` to `save/[Emulator]/path/[AppID]_[PathHash]`. Old `path:` saves have to be moved (and the path hashes have changed).
- Don't include an icon in the system notification if that icon failed to load in the achievement list (broken icons exist).
- Fix crash if failed to load stats.
- Always save `path.txt` when using `path:` if the save folder exists (rather than only if the files changed when the program was launched).
- Some minor changes and fixes to updating achievement status when the emulator's save is changed.
- Include path hash in `~` info.
- The first change to `showtext.py` in nearly 10 months: multiple spaces in a row are no longer replaced by one when using `long_text` or `multiline_text`.
- Create `games` folder automatically instead of refusing to run if it doesn't exist (that behavior was added in `2e85e85`).
- Changed the default value of `bar_force_unlock` to `true`.
- Fixed the "Hidden achievements" line not appearing in search results if a `#keyword` is used.
- `[icon_converter, save_finder]` Allow `=` in alias.
- `[ach_dumper]` Only load stat display names if they're enabled in settings.
- `[save_finder_all]` Don't save list of app names received from Steam (was used for testing and not removed later).

### Commit 670e6cc
- Another sorting fix.
- Handle unknown request errors.
- Fixed using `font_size_regular` instead of `font_size_general` for game name, causing a crash. Extra proof of the settings names being weird.
- Press `Enter` to show search results.
- `[ach_dumper]` -args can be given in the `Enter AppID:` input.
- `[ach_dumper]` Unlock rates, if enabled in `settings.txt`. Relies on percentages downloaded by the main program.
- `[ach_dumper]` Sorting (`-r`, `-uot`, `-t`).
- `[ach_dumper]` Changed folder name (`text_dump` -> `ach_dumper`).
- Added `save_finder_all`: a script that finds all supported saves (except `path:` ones) and prints a list, including game names from Steam.

### Commit 5db5f30
- Added `strftime` setting to set a custom date/time format.
- Fix sorting.
- Allow `=` in alias.
- Fix "All achievements locked" history notification crash. Remove icon from system notification of the same type.
- Stats file is now loaded once (instead of once for every stat) for non-Goldberg emulators.
- `~` info: changed order from `Emulator / AppID / Username` to `AppID / Emulator / Username`.
- `[icon_converter]` Shows number of successfully converted icons.
- Added `ach_dumper`: a script that writes the achievement list with your progress to a text file for easy sharing.

### Commit 2e85e85
- Better way of storing unlock rates. Also, generated `.json` files now have indents.
- `hide_secrets` was replaced by `secrets` with a third behavior option (`bottom`).
- It's now ok if `games.txt` doesn't end with an empty line.
- Added `language_requests` (language used for Steam requests; if empty, uses the first language from `language` like before).
- `color_bar_completed` can now be empty (to use same color as `color_bar_fill`). This is the default value now.
- `color_hover` (which I forgot to mention in the readme) was replaced with `color_achbg_hover` (which can be empty). Other `color_achbg_` options were added.
- Display names for stats.
- Values for settings that accept a string can now contain `=`.
- Additional settings files can now be loaded using `add_file=filename.txt`.
- Search feature (press `Ctrl+F`).
- In-app sorting/secrets settings (right-click the unlock status filter button). They don't modify `settings.txt` and only affect the current session. Right-click the secrets button to access a new "reveal secret achievements" button. Kept the unlock history screen even though the same sorting can easily be achieved with these buttons.
- If `frame_size` is greater than 5, use 5.
- Pressing the `~` key will print which game/emulator/user are being tracked and the program's version.
- More info is printed when an achievement is clicked: progress stat, rarity (if `unlockrates=load`), unlock time (if `show_timestamps` is diabled).
- Moved converted icons from `games/ico/[AppID]` to `games/[AppID]/achievement_images/ico`.
- `[icon_converter]` Shows time taken.
- `[icon_converter]` Added `-c` to check if icons are converted instead of converting them.
- `[icon_converter]` Handle missing `alias.txt` and `achievements.json`.
- `[icon_converter]` Show number of current app instead of amount of finished apps (`1/1` instead of `0/1`).
- `[icon_converter]` If there's an error while converting an icon, print its type. Also print if an icon has already been converted.
- Added `save_finder`: a script that finds supported saves for a given AppID. Supports alias.

### Commit f781df9
- Some changes and fixes to Linux notifications by @detiam. See his PR for more information.

### Commit 4f52cda
- `[icon_converter]` Fix alias.

## v1.2.1
- Hide API names when clicking hidden achievements, unless holding `SHIFT`.
- Don't load unused image; remove `savetime_shown=first` from emulator-specific settings; mention Steam user IDs in `alias.txt` template.

## v1.2.0
- Achievement unlock rates. Can be added after achievement name or after its description. They're saved in a file for offline access. Achievements can be sorted by rarity in settings. Different colors can be set for rare achievements.
- No longer freezes during achievements/stats requests when tracking achievements from Steam.
- "History unlocks" screen where unlocks are sorted by time. This can also be enabled for the main list.
- Changed default for `savetime_shown` to `first`. It makes sense because there are likely cases where an achievement gets re-unlocked normally after a "force-unlock". In general, you usually don't want timestamps to change. Note that if you disable `save_timestamps`, they'll still be saved within the current session.
- Added `bar_unlocked=zerolen`, which hides the bar, but keeps the numbers (their behavior is similar to `full`).
- Highlight achievements when they're hovered over. Highlight color can be changed in settings.
- Click an achievement to print some info about it. Hold `SHIFT` to include description if the achievement is hidden. I also made an option to hold `CTRL` to choose a language for name/description, but commented it out since `input()` freezes everything and kills `pyw`.
- Steam user IDs can now be loaded from `alias.txt` too.
- Other minor things.

## v1.1.2
- Fix SSE achievements not updating.

## v1.1.1
- If bar length is set to 0, remove the empty space between the bar and the x/y text. (This was supposed to be in v1.1.0, but I forgot to finish it. And I also forgot to name the commit just now.)

## v1.1.0
- Can now use an alias only for its AppID. If an emulator name is specified after the alias, it's used instead of the one from `alias.txt`.
- Unlock timestamps can now be saved to display the correct time even if the emulator overwrites it. Related options were added.
- Added support for ALi213, SmartSteamEmu and even normal Steam.
- Now using `pygame.transform.smoothscale` instead of `pygame.transform.scale` by default. This is a better way to resize icons if needed. Old behavior can be restored by disabling `smooth_scale` in settings.
- Saves are now separated by username/ID. This affects different storage locations for Codex, too.
- `forced_time_load` setting to choose timestamp for force-unlocks achieved while the program wasn't running.
- `unlocks_on_top` setting to optionally show unlocked achievements at the top of the list.
- Font sizes can now be chosen for each font with a syntax similar to `font_achs`. Added `font_size_general`.
- Added `font_achs_desc` to allow choosing a separate font for descriptions.
- If no default font is chosen in one of the options, Roboto is used.
- Game names are now automatically retrieved from Steam. Game name can also be changed through `LnzAch_gamename` environment variable. `=` can be used in names.
- Added window size options.
- Added multiple options for the game progress bar's position to not break things with a small window size.
- Notifications have icons now. This causes extra delay on Windows, but `icon_converter.py` can solve that. Can be disabled in settings (`notif_icons`).
- Full bars now use `color_bar_completed` instead of `color_bar_fill`. By default, it's white, just like `color_bar_fill`.
- `settings_[AppID]_[Emulator].txt` is now loaded.
- On Linux, use `unotify` to display notifications on top of full screen games.
- Can scroll using mouse wheel and Page Up / Page Down.
- Bugfixes and minor changes.
