# Lanzador/Achievements
A program that lets you view your achievements and stats from Steam emulators. Most of v1.0.0 was made in around a week, although the release was delayed. Some things are unobvious, so please read this.

- View achievements and stats

- Get unlock and progress notifications

- Supports Windows and Linux

- 4 Steam emulators + real Steam

- Filter by unlock state, sort and search

- 3 ways of handling secret achievements

- Customizable colors, fonts and sounds

- Achievement progress bars and progress-based unlocks

- A fix for broken progress bars in some games

## Dependencies
Initially made with Python 3.8.10. Version used for last release: 3.12.5

Packages used: `pygame, plyer, requests, Pillow, pyperclip` (+ `PyGObject` for Linux)

## Usage
To get data about achievements and stats, this program relies on game configs generated by [Goldberg's generate_emu_config.py](https://gitlab.com/Mr_Goldberg/goldberg_emulator/-/tree/master/scripts). You can manually run the script and put files from the generated `steam_settings` in `games/[AppID]` or set `generator_path` in settings to point to the script (.py or executable) to make this process automatic for all new games.

Versions of this script from forks of Goldberg may have a different config format. One of such alternative formats is supported: the one that stores achievement icons in `img` instead of `achievement_images` and has this `img/` in icon names in `achievements.json`. I found this version of the script to be more reliable and fast.

The only required files are: `achievements.json`, `stats.txt` (or `stats.json`) and `achievement_images` (or `img`). This is what a correctly installed game config should look like:
```
Achievements
└───games
    └───[AppID]
        │   achievements.json
        │   stats.txt
        └───achievement_images
            │   icon1.jpg
            │   icon2.jpg
            │   ...
```

You can also edit `games/alias.txt` to load the game's achievements using a short name instead of remembering AppIDs. If you use `generator_path`, you will be given the option to assign an alias right after config generation.

`alias.txt` follows this format: `AppID=alias` (one per line). In addition to the AppID, you can include an emulator name, as well as any extra information needed for that emulator. Use the same format that you use when entering this info after launching the program.

Once you set this up, you can open the list of achievements by running `window.py` (or `achievements.exe` if you downloaded the release version) and entering the AppID or alias of the game. You can also pass it (and the values below) as command line arguments.

You can enter an alias followed by an emulator name (and username) to load the AppID that this alias refers to, but track a different emulator/username.

By default, it's assumed that you use Goldberg. For other emulators, add their short name after the AppID (separated by a space). Usually some extra information will be required after the emulator name. For more information, see the "Emulators" section below.

To change the default emulator or assign default usernames, edit `games/defaults.txt`. If a default username is set, but you want to ignore it and load a game with no username, use the `/` symbol.

It is recommended to always keep the program running while playing so that correct unlock timestamps can be saved and notifications can be displayed.

## Emulators
The table below contains a list of supported emulators. Internal names are used when loading emulator-specific settings files. Any of the short names can be used when loading a game.

| Emulator      | Internal name | Short names                    | Support level                           |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------- |
| Goldberg      | `goldberg`    | `g, gb, goldberg`              | Full                                    |
| Codex         | `codex`       | `c, cd, cod, cdx, codex`       | Full                                    |
| ALi213        | `ali213`      | `a, ali, ali213, 213, a213`    | Full                                    |
| SmartSteamEmu | `sse`         | `s, sse, smartsteamemu, smart` | No "Achievement Progress" notifications |
| Steam         | `steam`       | `st, steam`                    | No "Achievement Progress" notifications |

### Goldberg
`[AppID] g [f]`

If you haven't touched `defaults.txt`, this is the default emulator, so there isn't a need to explicitly write `g`.

If you're using the fork that stores saves in `GSE Saves` instead of `Goldberg SteamEmu Saves`, add an `f`. If you're using that fork, it is recommended to disable `stat_achievement_progress_functionality` in `steam_settings/configs.main.ini` to prevent "Achievement Progress" notification spam.

If you changed the save path for a game, you can enter the full path to these saves (prefixed with `path:`) to load your progress.

For example: `480 g path:C:/Game folder/Goldberg`

### Codex
`[AppID] c [a]`

By default the program checks the Codex folder located in Documents, but for some versions of Codex you'll want to look for achievement files in AppData instead. If that's the case, add an `a`.

### ALi213
`[AppID] a [Username/Path]`

Set save type to `1` in ALi213's settings. When loading the game in Achievements, provide the username that you have in the emulator's settings.

Save type `0` is also supported, but to load such saves you'll have to enter a full path to the user's save folder, prefixed with `path:`.

For example: `480 a path:C:/Game folder/Profile/Username`

### SmartSteamEmu
`[AppID] s [Username/Path]`

Enable `StorageOnAppdata` in SSE's settings. If `SeparateStorageByName` is disabled, provide no username. If it is enabled, provide the username that you have in the emulator's settings.

If `StorageOnAppdata` is disabled, you can still enter a full path to the folder containing AppID subfolders, prefixed with `path:`.

For example: `480 s path:C:/Game folder/SmartSteamEmu/Username`

### Steam
`[AppID] st [User ID]`

You must enter your Steam Web API key in settings to track Steam achievements.

`alias.txt` can be used for Steam user IDs.

Remember that Steam has a daily limit of 100,000 requests per API key.

## Settings
Settings can be changed in `settings/settings.txt`. You can also create `settings/settings_[Emulator].txt`, `settings/settings_[AppID].txt` or `settings/settings_[AppID]_[Emulator]` to use different settings for a specific emulator or game. All available settings are included in the default `settings.txt`, but if you remove any, their default values will be used. Below is a list of all available settings. For boolean settings, you can use `1`/`0` as well as `true`/`false`. `add_file=filename.txt` can be used to load settings from another file in the `settings` folder.

### List of settings
`window_size_x`- horizontal size of the window, in pixels. Default: `800`

`window_size_y`- vertical size of the window, in pixels. Default: `600`

`delay` - time (in seconds) that must pass before files are checked for changes. Default: `0.5`

`delay_stats` - stats will only be checked for changes on every `[value]`th check. Useful if using Goldberg for a game with a lot of stats. Default: `1` (check always)

`delay_sleep` - time (in seconds) to sleep for after every iteration of the main loop. Default: `0.03`

`delay_read_change` - time to wait for before reading a file after it was changed. Default: `0.05`

`gamebar_length` - length of the game completion bar, in pixels. Default: `375`

`gamebar_position` - decides where to show the game completion bar. `normal` - normal position (default); `repname` - hide game name and move the bar up; `under` - move the bar down, below the buttons; `hide` - hide the bar.

`frame_size` - thickness of the frames around achievement icons, in pixels. Default: `2`

`frame_color_unlock` - color to use for icon frames for unlocked achievements. Default: `255,255,255`

`frame_color_lock` - color to use for icon frames for locked achievements. Default: `128,128,128`

`frame_color_rare` - color to use for icon frames for unlocked rare achievements. Default: Empty

`frame_color_rare_lock` - color to use for icon frames for locked rare achievements. Default: Empty

`frame_color_hover` - color to use for icon frames on hover. Default: Empty

`rare_below` - rarity percentage below which achievements are considered "rare" for the above settings. Default: `10.0`

`rare_below_relative` - if enabled, the value of `rare_below` will be treated as a percentage of the most common achievement's unlock rate. Default: `false`

`rare_guaranteed` - the minimal amount of rare achievements a game should have. If there are too few, `rare_below` will be adjusted automatically. Default: `0`

`language` - comma-separated (no spaces) list of languages to use for achievements. First available language is used. If nothing is available, English is used. Default: `english`

`language_requests` - language to use for Steam requests (such as game names). If empty, the first language from `language` will be used. Default: Empty

`ctrl_click` - if enabled, holding Ctrl while clicking an achievement will let you choose a language through console input and print the achievement's name and description in that language. Default: `false`

`hidden_desc` - replacement description to show for locked hidden achievements. Default: `[Hidden achievement]`

`secrets` - hidden achievements. `normal` - show without descriptions; `hide` - remove from the list, like on Steam (default); `bottom` - move to the bottom of the list.

`secrets_listhide` - in addition to descriptions, also hide secret achievements' names and icons. Default: `false`

`secrets_bottom_count` - show the hidden achievements count line when `secrets=bottom`. Default: `true`

`reveal_icons_hover` - show unlocked icons for locked achievements on hover (except hidden achievements). Default: `false`

`reveal_icons_revsecr` - show unlocked icons for locked achievements in "reveal secret achievements" mode. `never` - no changes; `hover` - on hover, even if `reveal_icons_hover` is disabled (default); `always` - show all icons as unlocked in this mode.

`unlocks_on_top` - move unlocked achievements to the top of the list. Default: `false`

`unlocks_timesort` - sort unlocked achievements by unlock time. Only works if `unlocks_on_top` is enabled or you're viewing unlocks only. Default: `false`

`sort_by_rarity` - sort achievements by rarity instead of keeping their normal order. Default: `false`

`bar_length` - length of achievement progress bars, in pixels. Default: `300`

`bar_unlocked` - behavior of progressbars under unlocked achievements. `show` - no special rules; `full` - show a full bar even when the progress value is below the target (default); `hide` - hide the bar; `zerolen` - hide the bar, but keep `full`-like progress numbers.

`bar_hide_unsupported` - hide progressbar if its value can't be calculated. `none` - never (default); `stat` - hide if progress formula or stat type is unsupported, keep if stat not present in `stats.txt`; `all` - always.

`bar_hide_secret` - hide progressbar if the achievement is hidden and not earned. Default: `true`

`bar_ignore_min` - assume that achievement progress `min_val` is always `0`. Fixes progressbars in some games. Default: `false`

`bar_percentage` - show achievement progress as a percentage. `no` - don't show (default); `show` - show next to normal values; `only` - show instead of normal values.

`bar_images` - if enabled, `color_bar_` settings are ignored. Instead, `bar_bg.png`, `bar_fill.png` and `bar_completed.png` are used as repeating patterns. Default: `false`

`bar_force_unlock` - automatically unlock an achievement when its progress target is reached (most emulators don't do that). Default: `true`

`forced_keep` - keep "force-unlocked" achievements even if the progress value drops below the achievement's target. Changing this is rather useless. `no` - don't keep; `session` - keep until the program is closed and don't save timestamps; `save` - save these unlocks in a file, together with their timestamps (default).

`forced_mark` - show `(F)` next to an achievement's timestamp if it's "force-unlocked". Default: `false`

`forced_time_load` - timestamp to set for "force-unlocks" that are detected on launch. `now` - current time (default); `filechange` - last modification time of stat file.

`show_timestamps` - show timestamps. Default: `true`

`strftime` - [date/time format.](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes) Default: `%d %b %Y %H:%M:%S`

`history_length` - maximum length of history, after reaching which old entries get deleted. `0` disables the limit, `-1` hides the history button. Default: `0`

`history_time` - source of time to show in history. `real` - save current time when the change is recorded; `action` - save unlock times for unlock notifications and file change times for other notifications (default).

`history_unread` - mark new notifications as unread in history and show unread marks. Default: `true`

`history_clearable` - if disabled, the "clear history" button does nothing. Default: `true`

`notif` - show system notifications. Default: `true`

`notif_desc` - show achievement descriptions in notifications (but remove notification type header). Default: `false`

`notif_unlock_count` - include total unlock count in achievement unlock notifications. Default: `false`

`notif_limit` - max amount of notifications to show during one check. Any extra notifications will be grouped into one. Default: `3`

`notif_timeout` - time (in seconds) to show the notification for. Default: `3`

`notif_lock` - show notifications (and history entries) when an achievement is locked or when the achievement progress file is deleted. Default: `true`

`notif_icons` - show achievement icons in notifications. Adds extra delay on Windows if `icon_converter` is not used in advance. Default: `true`

`notif_icons_no_ico` - behavior if achievement icons aren't converted. Ignored if `notif_icons` is disabled. Windows-only. `ignore` - do nothing; `warn` - print count of icons that need to be converted; `convert` - run `icon_converter` (default).

`sound` - enable notification sounds. Sound files should be added to the `sounds` folder. Sound volumes can be decreased by adding a number between 0 and 1 like this: `sound_unlock=sound.file:0.5`. Default: `true`

`sound_unlock` - name of sound file for unlock notifications. Default: Empty

`sound_rare` - sound for rare achievement unlock notifications. Default: Empty

`sound_progress` - sound for achievement progress notifications. Default: Empty

`sound_multi` - sound to play when multiple notifications that would play a sound are sent during one check. Default: Empty

`sound_complete` - sound to play when the last achievement is unlocked. Default: Empty

`sound_rare_over_multi` - play `sound_rare` instead of `sound_multi` if one of the unlocked achievements is rare. Default: `false`

`unlockrates` - where to show achievement rarity percentages. `none` - don't load unlock rates; `load` - load unlock rates (for things like sorting), but don't display them; `name` - show unlock rates next to achievement names (default); `desc` - show them after descriptions.

`unlockrates_expire` - time after which saved unlock rates are considered expired and replaced (if possible). Avilable units: `s`, `m`, `h`, `d`. Default: `1h`

`font_general` - name of font file (inside the `fonts` folder) to use for everything except achievements. Default: `Roboto/Roboto-Regular.ttf`

`font_achs` - name of font file(s) to use for achievements. Format: `Font.ttf;language,language2:OtherFont.ttf` - the font without a language prefix is used for all languages without a language-specific font. Default: `Roboto/Roboto-Regular.ttf`

`font_achs_desc` - name of font file(s) to use for achievement descriptions, same format as `font_achs`. If not set, uses `font_achs`. Default: Empty

`font_size_general` - font size for `font_general`. Note: All font size settings are meant for small changes. Default: `15`

`font_size_regular` - font size(s) for achievement titles. Format: `15;Font.ttf:16`. Default: `15`

`font_size_small` - font size(s) for achievement descriptions. Format: `15;Font.ttf:16`. Default: `13`

`font_line_distance_regular` - distance between the beginning of each line on the stats screen. Default: `16`

`font_line_distance_small` - distance between the beginning of each line in achievement descriptions. Default: `16`

`font_time_general` - use `font_general` instead of `font_achs` for timestamps. Default: `false`

`images` - `language`-like list of `images` subfolders to load images from. Make sure the images have the same size as the default ones. Rectangle text buttons from the top-right corner can have a different width. Default: Empty

`color_background` - background color. Default: `0,0,0`

`color_text` - default text color. Default: `255,255,255`

`color_text_unlock` - text color for unlocked achievements. Default: `255,255,255`

`color_text_lock` - text color for locked achievements. Default: `128,128,128`

`color_text_rare` - text color for unlocked rare achievements. Default: Empty

`color_text_rare_lock` - text color for locked rare achievements. Default: Empty

`color_text_hover` - text color for achievements when they're hovered over. Default: Empty

`color_time_general` - use `color_text` instead of the achievement's text color for timestamps. Default: `false`

`color_progress_report` - colors to use for progress reports notifications in history. `mixed` - unlock colors for some parts of the notification, lock colors for the rest of it (default); `unlock` - unlock colors only; `lock` - lock colors only.

`color_bar_bg` - color to use for progressbar background. Default: `128,128,128`

`color_bar_fill` - color to use for progressbar fill. Default: `255,255,255` - fun fact: this was originally `0,255,0`

`color_bar_completed` - color to use instead of `color_bar_fill` for full bars. Default: Empty

`color_scrollbar` - color to use for scrollbar. Default: `128,128,128`

`color_achbg_unlock` - color to use as background for unlocked achievements. Default: Empty

`color_achbg_lock` - color to use as background for locked achievements. Default: Empty

`color_achbg_rare` - color to use as background for unlocked rare achievements. Default: Empty

`color_achbg_rare_lock` - color to use as background for locked rare achievements. Default: Empty

`color_achbg_hover` - color used to highlight achievements when they're hovered over. Default: `64,64,64`

`achbg_rarity` - change the colored background's length to represent the achievement's rarity, like on Steam's global stats page. `no` - never (default); `sort` - when sorting by rarity is enabled; `yes` - always.

`achbg_rarity_relative` - if enabled, a full background represents the rarity of the most common achievement instead of 100.0%. Default: `false`

`save_timestamps` - save first and earliest timestamps of each achievement to a file. Default: `true`

`savetime_shown` - timestamps to display. `normal` - timestamp currently saved by emulator; `first` - first timestamp that was detected (default); `earliest` - the earliest out of all detected timestamps.

`savetime_mark` - show `(S)` next to an achievement's timestamp if the displayed timestamp is different from the "normal" one. Default: `false`

`savetime_keep_locked` - don't delete saved timestamps when an achievement gets locked. Enabling this will prevent loss of timestamp data in case of an error when loading player progress, but will also require manual deletion of saved timestamps if you decide to delete your progress. Whenever a timestamp is deleted because this is disabled, a copy of saved timestamps is created in `save/time_backup`. Default: `false`

`smooth_scale` - use `pygame.transform.smoothscale` instead of `pygame.transform.scale` to resize achievement icons when needed. Default: `true`

`stat_display_names` - load and show display names instead of API names for stats. Requires an API key. Default: `true`

`generator_path` - path to `generate_emu_config` (`.py` or executable). If set, config generation will be started automatically for all new games. Default: Empty

`api_key` - Steam Web API key. Required to track achievements from Steam. Default: Empty

## Unobvious features and controls

- `LnzAch_gamename` environment variable can be used to replace game name. @detiam requested this.

- Run `settings.py` to generate `settings/settings_default.txt`.

- Clicking an achievement will print some information about it: API name, languages, hidden?, progress stat, progress min_val (if it isn't 0), `force_progress.txt` settings (if it's enabled), rarity (if `unlockrates=load`; if `unlockrates=desc` and the achievement is hidden or has no description), unlock time (if `show_timestamps` is disabled). Hold `SHIFT` to include description, API name and progress stat even if the achievement is hidden. Enable `ctrl_click` in settings and hold CTRL to check names and descriptions in differnet languages.

- Clicking a stat will print its API name, default value (if it isn't 0) and last change time (if tracking Goldberg). If it is increment-only, that will be shown and its real value will be printed too.

- Press the `~` key to print information about which game/emulator/username is being tracked and the program's version.

- Right-click the state filter button (all/unlock/lock) to access sorting/secrets settings. Right-click the secrets button in that menu to see the "reveal secret achievements" and "hide all secret descriptions" buttons.

- Press `Ctrl+F` to search for achievements. The orange arrows take you to the prev/next match in the main list, similar to browser `Ctrl+F`. The green button shows all matching achievements. The following keywords can be used instead of normal search requests: `#hidden` - all secret achievements, including unlocked ones; `#not_hidden` - the opposite; `#progress` - all achievements with progressbars, including those with hidden progressbars. If `secrets=hide`, locked secret achievements won't be mentioned in search results even if you use one of these keywords.

- Right-click an achievement in history to jump to it in the main list.

- To mark stats as increment-only, list them in `games/[AppID]/increment_only.txt` (one stat per line). `*` will mark all stats. Note that this will only affect the values in this program and won't change what the game sees.

- Press `Ctrl+D` to use an internal version of `ach_dumper`. This can be used to save history, too. `Ctrl+Tab+D` will do the same, but first reload the settings used by `ach_dumper` (loaded separately from normal settings). `Ctrl+Shift+D` will run regular `ach_dumper` with correct arguments.

- You can manually set game names by adding them to `games/games.txt`, just like in older versions. Format: `AppID=Name`

- You can force achievement progress notifications to appear for games that don't have them by creating `games/[AppID]/force_progress.txt` and listing all achievements you want to get such notifications for, one achievement API name per line (or `*` to affect all achievements). By default, you will get a notification each time the related stat changes. To get less notifications, you can set a custom step value to get notifications only every X progress units, for example: `Achievement:10`. Add an `r` if you want notifications to show values rounded down to the last notification-triggering target value: `Achievement:10r` or `Achievement:r`. If no achievement name is given before the colon, this change will apply to all achievements below. Use `:x` to cancel `:r`. Use `:-` to remove previously added achievements. Extra spaces are allowed. Examples:

```
AchievementA
AchievementB:5
AchievementC:r
AchievementD:100r

:20r
  AchievementE
  AchievementF :   x
  AchievementG : 25x
  AchievementH
```

```
*:5
UnwantedAchievement1:-

:-
UnwantedAchievement2
ThisAchievementWillBeRemovedToo:10

:
ThisAchievementWontBeRemoved
```

## Scripts

### icon_converter
Windows doesn't accept `.jpg` icons for notifications, so they have to be converted to `.ico`. Doing this every time a notification is shown adds some delay. (Also, temporarily converted icons are deleted in 2 seconds, so a crash is probably possible if they're not loaded in time)

To prevent that delay, achievement icons can be converted in advance. (This is done automatically since v1.3.1)

After running the converter, enter the AppID (or alias) of the game you want to convert icons for.

Multiple IDs can be entered, separated by spaces.

Use `*` to include all games that have a `games/[AppID]` folder.

The ID(s) can be passed as command line arguments.

Accepted arguments:

- `-s` - hide progress output.

- `-c` - warn if the `games/[AppID]/achievement_images/ico` folder doesn't exist, but do nothing about it. Still requires a list of AppIDs to check (or `*`).

### save_finder
Enter the AppID (or alias) to find all supported non-`path:` saves for a given game on your PC.

A list of emulators (with usernames, where applicable) will be printed. If nothing appeared, no saves were found.

### save_finder_all
Run this to find all supported non-`path:` saves on your PC.

If possible, game names will be printed next to AppIDs. Sometimes not all names are retrieved for some reason, so if too many IDs are left without a name, try running this again.

Accepted arguments:

- `-g` - group saves by game (rather than by emulator).

- `-eg` - group by emulator, but subgroup by game (rather than by username).

- `-eg2` - alternative format for `-eg`.

If no arguments are provided, you will be able to choose a grouping mode interactively.

### ach_dumper
This script writes the achievement list for a given game to a text file which you can send to others to show your progress without screenshoting each page of the list.

Settings used: `language`, `language_requests`, `savetime_shown`, `bar_hide_secret`, `bar_ignore_min`, `unlockrates`, `secrets`, `hidden_title`, `hidden_desc`, `stat_display_names`, `strftime`, `api_key` (if loading progress from Steam)

Use `settings_ad.txt` to set separate options for ach_dumper. Works for game/emulator-specific settings, too. Just add `_ad` to the filename.

Game name, unlock rates and stat display names are loaded from files created by the main program. They are not updated by the script.

Accepted arguments:

- `-u`, `-l` - (un)locked achievements only.

- `-h` - hide descriptions even for secret achievements even if they're unlocked.

- `-sn`, `-sh`, `-sb` - use a specific value for `secrets` (`normal`, `hide` or `bottom`) instead of the one from your `settings.txt`.

- `-s` - write stats instead of achievements.

- `-r`, `-uot`, `-t` - equivalents of `sort_by_rarity`, `unlocks_on_top` and `unlocks_timesort`.

An internal version of this script is available in the main program and can be used by pressing Ctrl+D.

## Contact me

Feel free to contact me if you have questions or if you find something weird (or if you just want to say that you found this useful). Contact info is in my profile.